---
title: 2019 Books
layout: post
tags: books
local: 2019-02-08-2019-books
---

* TOC
{:toc}

Refer to [First Post of 2019]({% post_url 2019-02-08-first-post %})
for my thoughts on the books read in 2018. Looking forward to populating this
page with more books in 2019!

### 21 Lessons for the 21st Century - Yuval Noah Harari
1st February 2019. This was a lot more refreshing than Homo Deus, though there
are overlapping themes with Sapiens and Homo Deus. I really liked Harari's idea
of how "everything" is a construct - for example, countries are a construct. He
ended the book with Meditation, and this coincided with the current trend of
everyone meditating. Calm and Headspace are such examples, and the former
company raised a whopping sum recently and achieved unicorn status. It'd be
exciting to see how humanity develops over the next few years.

### A Gentleman in Moscow - Amor Towles
8th July 2019. This book was one of the 5 books Bill Gates recommended reading
for the summer of 2019. The book revolved around the life of a person living in
a hotel as he was under "house arrest" there. When you first hear of it, it
would seem boring but the author did a really good job of giving a glimpse of
Russian history through a character.

### Clean Architecture - Robert C. Martin
24th July 2019. If there is a book you should read about software architecture,
it has to be this. It can be read from end to end and gives you great insight
into how to build maintainable software and not overengineer. 

### The Future of Capitalism - Paul Collier
August 2019. Once again, got this book from Gates Notes. Capitalism has worked
well for the past 100 years. It's lifted billions of people from "poverty". I
put poverty in quotes because when we think about it, money is concept
constructed by society - are the poor really poor? They could be really happy
living in a village and leading sustainable lifestyles, but society as is today
judges that as a "failure". This is a theme that's closely related to Harari's
books. 

Capitalism seems to put growth at all costs as the goal - this is worrying.
Companies around the world constantly produce and produce and produce. Food and
clothing are good examples. Just look around us - we throw away so much food,
buy new clothes every few months and donate our old clothes. Is this really all
necessary? 

Well, it seems like Capitalism is the only known model that "works". It is here
to stay, but we need to rediscover an ethic of belonging, patriotism and
belonging for it to continue to work. More often than not we hear of this term
"global citizen" that's used to describe a young 25 year old working
professional who has the capability to live anywhere she wants because she is
skilled. She has no sense of belonging to any location and does not contribute
back to the cities that have helped in her becoming successful. The elite are
propelled forward in life and the large middle class is left behind. Collier
explained this is one of the reasons why we see the current situation in
politics around the world - Trump, Brexit, etc.

The new "global citizen" needs to start remembering his roots. I can start by
contributing back to Singapore.

### Structures - J. E. Gordon
6th July 2019. I picked up this book because I saw that it's one of the books
that Elon Musk recommended - thought it must be good. It turned out to be a
really interesting read. Whenever I look at structures now, I look at them with
greater intent. For example, I'll observe a building in New York City and wonder
if the window is there because of the beam or because there's reinforced
concrete. If I look at bridge, I will observe the way it's built and how the
forces are spread. I also think of I-Beams as simply 2 flat pieces of metal
supported by an "infinite mesh". 

The part on having large safety tolerances was insightful. We have to factor
that into buildings as lives are involved, but for some reason, we do not do
that for software. Why can't we engineer large safety tolerances into software
and build more stable products that are less buggy. When constructing a
building, it has to be perfect. When constructing software, it seems like we
allow for errors. To be fair, it's not a direct comparison as a building takes
3 to 5 years of planning and another 5 to 10 years for construction. In a
nutshell, I'm wondering how we can improve the software construction process.



