---
title: 2020 Books
layout: post
tags: books
local: 2020-08-06-2020-books
---

* TOC
{:toc}

### Alibaba - The House That Jack Ma Built - Duncan Clark
15th September 2020. A good friend recommended this book. I really liked the
idea of Jack Ma's Iron Triangle. I started to take an interest in logistics in
my first project at Palantir. The project was based in Copenhagen and I had a
great time working on it. I decided to further my knowledge in the supply chain
industry and, as of today, finished 3 out of 5 courses in the MIT MicroMasters
in Supply Chain Management. I really liked how the lecturer succinctly
summarizes supply chains - information and financial flows facilitating the flow
of physical goods. This resonated with me as I independently did a philosophical
exercise on what a God on Earth would be, but this is a story for another day. 

Jack Ma came from a humble background, was rejected even by KFC, failed the
Gaokao, and many more. He's a true fighter. I've got many great quotes in this
book, and as usual, have marked them with little stickers on the physical book.
I put some notable ones here.

1. 85 percent of the fish in sea are shrimp-sized. I don't know anyone who makes
money from whales, but I've seen many making money from shrimp (p. 94). 2.
Because schools teach knowledge, while starting business requires wisdom. Wisdom
is acquired through experience. Knowledge can be acquired through hardwork (p.
123).  3. Masters of negotiation always listen, don't talk. Those who talk a lot
only have second-rate negotiation skills. A true master listens, and as soon as
he moves his sword, you pretty much collapse (p. 126). 

In total, I think I stuck about 20 stickers. I really liked the first two quotes
and remembered them. I like the first because a lot of start-ups are striving to
be next unicorn, aiming to capture whales and using that to raise more funds. I
personally prefer the route of catching shrimp, but hey, I own the small boat
and the net and don't loan the harpoons and trawlers. On the second quote, I
enjoy the pursuit of knowledge. I need to hold myself back at times and execute
harder. And the last quote I just added it in for fun as I was browsing - I
simply wanted to put 3 quotes.

### Educated - Tara Westover
12th September 2020. I first got this book in 2019 - a couple of colleagues
highly recommended it. It was also recommended by Bill Gates
[here](https://www.gatesnotes.com/books/educated).

It's really impressive how Tara overcame the challenges she faced. When she had
a toothache and it was causing immense pain, she refused to take medication or
apply for a government grant, as she was brought up in a family that claimed
that modern medicine is bad and the government is out to get you. She also had
to work in her family's junkyard, where her Dad was pretty much reckless. He was
willing to risk serious or fatal injuries to save a few minutes. True enough,
one of his sons got burnt badly, and they did not go to a hospital. Tara was
injured badly herself after falling off and almost getting impaled. Her Dad was
also injured after a fuel tank exploded when he was trying to cut it open. In
spite of all this, Tara pushed through, did pretty well in ACTs, managed to get
into college and do well, and a visit to Cambridge eventually changed her life. 

In her book, one statement resonated with me: "Curiosity is a luxury reserved
for the financially secure: my mind was absorbed with more immediate concerns".
It's almost like Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs - if you can't get your basic needs
settled, it is hard to think about higher level ideas. This might be a stretch,
and it would be interesting to read some academic papers on it, but it seems to
me that lots of valuable companies are founded by people from "good schools".
And most students who go to these "good schools" come from financially secure
backgrounds. Of course, I'm not making a generalization - Jack Ma is one such
example. He did not go to a "good school" but built a super valuable company. I
guess the general point I'm trying to get at is the idea of "the rich getting
richer". We should think a little more on the redistribution of wealth. 

I also started thinking more about the information bubble we live in. I am a
product of the information I consume and digest. Am I truly me, or am I an
aggregation of information around me? What would happen if Tara did not leave
her information bubble? Interesting questions to think about.


### Prisoners of Geography - Tim Marshall 
6th August 2020. A light and enjoyable read. I learnt small bits of information
about various conflicts around the world. There have been many small wars
throughout history, like the Mexican-American War in 1846, the various civil
wars and independence movements, etc. The list goes on. When you look at history
through this lens and look closely at the events after World War II, you realize
that there actually have been many small wars after World War II, like the
Korean War, Vietnam War, the Six-Day War. Countries all over the world are
disputing borders based on the history of the land which is defined arbitrarily.
For example, In the Middle East, various tribes have lived on those lands for
perhaps a thousand years, and the colonialists redrew the boundaries
(Sykes-Picot). These boundaries are of course "imaginary" - you do not see them
physically on the ground. When you force various tribes with a thousand years of
history to start living in a state or country with other tribes that they
historically do not like, there is bound to be conflict.

The biggest takeaway from this book is that the borders we see today are
definitely not static and will change. It could be 10, 100 or a 1000 years
before they change, but one thing is for sure - it will change. Perhaps the only
time it will not change would be when humans become a spacefaring species and we
identify ourselves as Earthlings. 

When you start with the assumption the borders are fluid, you start to
understand geopolitics better.

### Reminiscences of a Stock Operator - Edwin Lefevre
13th August 2020. A book written in 1929 about stock markets that is still largely relevant today. Jesse Livermore traded in a day where he could corner, move markets, inside trade and more so we have to take what he did and extract relevant learnings and apply it to today's context.

I found it interesting when he mentioned do not try to catch the first and last eighths. Specifically, when prices are going down, and you didn't catch it at the low - that's fine. When prices are going up, and you didn't catch it at the high - that's fine. Selling or buying at the eighths are fine too.

When selling a large amount of stock, you more often than not will move the market so you have to make a market for it - it's interesting how he made the market and how sellers sell on the way down.

Don't fall into the trap of buying a stock at 10, just because it was at 30, and 10 is now a bargain.

Think about what a tip truly is, and what financial news actually tells you.

Many lessons in this short book.
